---
title: StarBird
feature_text: |
  Help a bird collect stars within the time limit to outshine its friends!
excerpt: |
  Help a bird collect stars within the time limit to outshine its friends!
feature_image: "/assets/figures/lisha-riabinina-skyline-edit.jpg"
categories:
- Hackathon
- Python
---

Summary

- A platform game where the player controls a bird to collect stars
- Game was designed with PyGame for TuffyHacks 2021

[See the Project on Devpost.](https://devpost.com/software/starbird)

[See the Project on Github.](https://github.com/hanish600/Projects)

StarBird is simple 2d platform-like game where the player controls a bird to collect stars within the time limit.
This game was developed using the game engine PyGame as part of TuffyHacks 2021, a virtual hackathon hosted by CSU Fullerton.

The main part is about the player controlling the bird character, making it jump upwards and getting it near the star sprites in order to increase a counter at the top of the screen.
A timer counts down from 60 seconds and when it reaches zero, the game resets, keeping track of the highest star count as long as the game is still running.

Our team wanted to make a game that had a relaxing feel to it and I think we accomplished that.
We had difficulties at the start of the hackathon, because we did  not have a solid idea of the type of game we wanted to make.
In addition, we had trouble setting up a way to communicate with one another aside from Discord.
Despite this, we were happy about the way the game turned out, given that we only 24 hours to build it.
I am not sure if our team will return to this project, and if we do, we would approach it at a completely different angle.

Demo:

{% include video.html id="HnlCIYBu_yk" title="TuffyHacks 2021 - StarBird Demo" %}
